1.what is full stack development?
Full-stack development is the process of building both the front end (what users see and interact with) and 
the back end (the server, database, and application logic) of a software application.
The Three Main Parts of a Full-Stack Application
1. Front End (Client Side)

The user interface that runs in a web browser or mobile app.

Technologies:

HTML
CSS
JavaScript
Frameworks: React, Angular, Vue

Examples:

Login forms
Navigation menus
Product pages
Dashboards
2. Back End (Server Side)

Handles business logic, authentication, and communication with databases.

Technologies:

Node.js
Python (Django, Flask, FastAPI)
Java (Spring Boot)
PHP (Laravel)
C# (.NET)

Examples:

Processing payments
User authentication
API development
Data validation
3. Database

Stores and retrieves application data.

Technologies:

MySQL
PostgreSQL
MongoDB
SQLite

Examples:

User accounts
Orders
Blog posts
Product information
Example: Online Shopping Website

When a customer clicks "Buy Now":

Front End displays the button.
Back End receives the request and processes the order.
Database stores the order details.
Back End sends a response.
Front End shows "Order Successful".

A full-stack developer can work on all of these steps.

2.what is mern full stack development?
MERN Full Stack Development means building complete web applications using four JavaScript technologies:

MERN = MongoDB + Express.js + React + Node.js
MERN Stack Architecture
Frontend (React)
       |
       v
Backend API (Express.js + Node.js)
       |
       v
Database (MongoDB)
1. React (Frontend)

React is used to create the user interface that users interact with.

Examples:

Login page
Home page
Dashboard
Shopping cart

Features:

Component-based architecture
Fast rendering
Single Page Applications (SPA)
2. Node.js (Runtime Environment)

Node.js allows JavaScript to run on the server.

Responsibilities:

Handle requests from the frontend
Execute server-side logic
Communicate with databases

Example:

app.get("/users", (req, res) => {
    res.send("Users data");
});
3. Express.js (Backend Framework)

Express is a framework built on Node.js that simplifies server development.

Responsibilities:

Create APIs
Handle routing
Manage middleware
Process HTTP requests and responses

Example:

app.post("/login", loginUser);
4. MongoDB (Database)

MongoDB is a NoSQL database that stores data as documents.

Example document:

{
  "name": "Chandu",
  "email": "chandu@gmail.com",
  "age": 22
}

Common operations:

Create data
Read data
Update data
Delete data (CRUD)
How MERN Works Together

Suppose a user signs up:

Step 1: React

User enters details and clicks "Register".

axios.post("/register", userData);
Step 2: Express + Node.js

The server receives the request.

app.post("/register", registerUser);
Step 3: MongoDB

User information is stored in the database.

await User.create(userData);
Step 4: Response

The server sends a success message back to React.

res.json({ message: "Registration successful" });
Step 5: React

Displays:

Registration Successful

CONSLUSION:
MERN Full Stack Development is the process of building complete web applications using MongoDB for the database, 
Express.js and Node.js for the backend, and React for the frontend. A MERN developer can develop both the client side 
and server side of an application using JavaScript throughout the entire stack.

3>who the frontend and backend are communicated in fullstack?

Frontend and backend communicate through APIs using HTTP requests and responses. 
The frontend sends requests (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) to backend endpoints, 
the backend processes the request, interacts with the database if needed, 
and returns data—usually in JSON format—which the frontend uses to update the user interface.

4>why we use http requests to communication between frontent and backend.why not others?
We use HTTP because it is the standard web protocol supported by all browsers and servers. 
It is simple, stateless, scalable, and works well for request-response communication. 
Other protocols such as WebSockets, gRPC, or TCP sockets can also be used, 
but HTTP is preferred for most web applications because of its simplicity and universal support.
WebSockets are typically chosen when real-time communication is required, such as in chat or gaming applications.

5>if react is not used in mern then ejs is substitution for that?
EJS can be used as an alternative to React for rendering the frontend.
However, EJS is a server-side templating engine where the backend generates HTML and sends it to the browser, 
whereas React is a frontend library that renders the UI in the browser and 
communicates with the backend through APIs. Applications using EJS are typically called Express/EJS applications, 
while applications using React, Express, Node.js, and MongoDB form the MERN stack.

