1.what is nodejs .explan in detail?
Node.js is a JavaScript runtime environment that allows you to run JavaScript outside the browser.

Why was Node.js created?

Before Node.js:

Frontend  -> JavaScript
Backend   -> Java, PHP, Python, C#

Developers had to learn different languages for frontend and backend.

Node.js made it possible to use JavaScript for both.

Frontend -> JavaScript
Backend  -> JavaScript (Node.js)

This is one reason the MERN stack became popular.

Advantages of Node.js (Short Interview Answer)
Fast Execution – Uses Google's V8 engine to execute JavaScript quickly.
Asynchronous & Non-blocking – Can handle many requests simultaneously without waiting for tasks to finish.
Single Language – JavaScript can be used for both frontend and backend development.
Scalable – Suitable for applications with a large number of users.
Large NPM Ecosystem – Thousands of ready-to-use packages and libraries are available.
Real-time Applications – Excellent for chat apps, live notifications, and streaming services.
Cross-platform – Runs on Windows, Linux, and macOS.

2.explain Event Loop in detail?
The Event Loop is the core mechanism in Node.js that enables asynchronous, non-blocking execution using a single thread.
 When asynchronous operations such as timers, file reads, or database queries are encountered,
Node.js delegates them to system APIs and continues executing other code. 
Once these operations complete, their callbacks are placed in a queue. 
The Event Loop continuously checks whether the Call Stack is empty and, 
if so, moves queued callbacks to the stack for execution. 
This allows Node.js to efficiently handle thousands of concurrent requests without creating a separate thread for each request.

2>what is npm.explain in detail?
NPM (Node Package Manager) is the default package manager for Node.js.

It helps developers:

Install libraries/packages
Manage project dependencies
Share code
Run scripts

What is a Package?

A package is a collection of reusable code.

NPM maintains an online registry containing millions of packages.

Your Project
      |
      v
NPM Registry
      |
      v
Downloads Packages

When you run:

npm install express

NPM downloads Express from the registry and stores it in your project.
Advantages of NPM

✅ Millions of packages available

✅ Easy dependency management

✅ Saves development time

✅ Handles package versions

✅ Supports scripts and automation

✅ Large community support

NPM (Node Package Manager) is the default package manager for Node.js. It is used to install, manage, update, and 
share JavaScript packages and project dependencies. NPM provides access to a large registry of reusable libraries, 
helps maintain package versions through package.json and package-lock.json, and allows developers to automate tasks 
using custom scripts. It significantly speeds up development by enabling the use of existing, well-tested packages 
instead of writing everything from scratch.

3.node_modules,package.json,package-lock.json. explain about them?
package.json is the project's metadata and dependency configuration file.
 node_modules is the folder where all installed packages and their dependencies are stored. package-lock.
json records the exact versions of installed packages to ensure consistent installations across different environments. 
When npm install is executed, NPM reads package.json, downloads packages into node_modules, and uses package-lock.
json to install the exact versions specified.